This transcript was exported on Oct 24, 2022 - view latest version here.

Trice Forgotten - Below Deck 6 – Decolonizing the Museum
Content warnings:
 Discussions of: human remains & death, animal remains & death, colonialism & racism
 SFX: distant creaking & waves
[Show Theme - Intro]
Announcer:

Rusty Quill presents: Below Decks, a Trice Forgotten deep dive, Episode 6: Decolonizing
the Museum

Nemo:

Hello and welcome to the sixth episode of Below Decks where we dig into some of the
research questions, stories, and generally tangential interesting things that went into
making trice forgotten. I'm Nemo my pronouns are they them. And I'm the creator and
lead writer of the series. This episode's coming out after episode seven of the podcasts.
Shore Leave where we've just seen a treasure hunt, Love of all kinds, and some final
goodbyes Today, on Below Deck, we're going to be talking about decolonizing the
museum, which in my head is a part two to the conversation we had with John Adler in
the previous episode. And to do so, I'm excited to be joined by Natalie Cooper, could
you introduce yourself with your pronouns and tell us a bit about what you do?

Dr. Cooper:

Yeah. I'm Dr. Natalie Cooper. My pronouns are she, her, I'm a senior researcher at the
Natural History Museum in London. And so my job's a bit different from John's, so he
was a, a curator, so he's in charge of the collections and keeping them safe and and
using them. Whereas my job is more research focused, so I'm in charge of kind of using
the collections and the data that we get from them to ask exciting questions in ecology,
evolution and conservation and things like that.

Nemo:

Yeah, it's really cool. Before I worked at the museum, I didn't know really that there
were different groups of people and to have different jobs and the kind of distinction
between curators and researchers and yeah, that there's kind of an ecology of museum
workers behind the scenes.

Dr. Cooper:

<laugh>, yes, there's like a taxonomy of us in the same way as we are doing this
taxonomy and sort of ordering of things, but only weirdly at the Natural History
Museum in London. So most other museums around the world, curators will do both
jobs combined. So we're quite lucky that we get to split them out.

Nemo:

That is really interesting. Is there a specific reason, do you know why in the Natural
History Museum in London that it's so split

Dr. Cooper:

<laugh>? It's probably just one of those things that was started in like 1881 and
everyone's too frightened to change it. <laugh>.

Nemo:

Oh yeah. Woo. Which is a kind of good way into this conversation about decolonizing
the museum. And for our listeners' sake, I uh, feel like saying up front, like immediately
before starting this recording call, I was like bottling it and being like, I don't know if I

SEAS_BelowDecks_6 (Completed 10/24/22)
Transcript by Rev.com

Page 1 of 12

This transcript was exported on Oct 24, 2022 - view latest version here.
want to talk about this <laugh>. Mostly because I was reading this really great article by
Samaya Kasim called The Museum Will Not Be Decolonized, Where Samaya was
basically arguing that institutions like the Natural History Museum, uh, impossible to
decolonize in how we understand decolonization. I
Dr. Cooper:

Mean, we, we could have a really quick up episode which would literally just be <laugh>
burn it all down. That's

Nemo:

The only

Dr. Cooper:

Solution. Yeah. We're we're done. I think that's the conversation over

Nemo:

<laugh>. Yeah, exactly. So, so maybe, um, other than burn it it all down, which I guess is
the standpoint that I'm slightly coming from right now, I, I feel like people should go and
read that article. It's a very good article and they say it better than I could. But Natalie,
for you, what do you think we actually mean when we're talking about decolonizing
museums and is there a difference in that between natural history collections versus
places like the British Museum?

Dr. Cooper:

Yeah, so I think it's one of those weirdly emotional subjects for people at the moment
because people think about museums and think about their childhood and, and get very
upset and, uh, sort of blaming, you know, the woke woke-irrate for coming in and
stealing their childhoods and um, giving back their dinosaurs and things like that. But,
you know, this is something that people have been talking about for a really long time.
So one of the things I think most British people have as part of their kind of the cultural
understanding is this whole idea of the path and marbles or the elgan marbles as
they're, they're often called and thinking about sending those back to Greece and the,
the fuss that that's caused. And I realized earlier that I must have known about this for a
really long time because up until I was 14 and went to the British Museum for the first
time, I thought they were actual marbles. Um, so like children's toys that

Nemo:

Somebody had stolen. It's so cute. I love that so much for you. And I wish that was true.

Dr. Cooper:

It was so confusing to me and I was like, oh, right, there's statues and actually brilliantly,
I went to Athens a few years ago and in their beautiful new museum where they've got
the other marbles, there's actually a sign on the wall that says we don't have these.
They were stolen by the British. Like, Yes, go. You just like straight in there <laugh> don't
sugarcoat. Yeah. So I think that's part of the problem is people hear decolonizing and
they start thinking about, you know, giving stuff back. But I think in a natural history
museum's context, it's maybe even more complicated cuz of course they are colonial
institutions and perhaps more so than places like the British Museum in some ways. But
actually how we go about dealing with that is I think a little bit more complicated than
this kind of debate of do we send it back or not

Nemo:

With the, like, do we send it back or not? I feel like there are different understandings of
like how you can, whether you can't just send things back or how you send things back,
or I mean the, the idea that it would be easy to slash simple to slash possible to slash all

SEAS_BelowDecks_6 (Completed 10/24/22)
Transcript by Rev.com

Page 2 of 12

This transcript was exported on Oct 24, 2022 - view latest version here.
of these questions about repatriation. Do you have thoughts about how that is different
between like natural history museums versus other collections?
Dr. Cooper:

Yeah, so I think part of the problem with natural history collections, and that's not to say
that we shouldn't send stuff back, and I should have said at the start, these are all my
opinions, none of this is the opinion of the Natural History Museum in London. You
know, there there's a debate about whether things should be returned to the countries
they were taken from, but some of it is is newer and was done with permits. And as, as
John mentioned in his episode, you know, we do still do collecting now, but we work
with local people and we get permits from the countries that we're working in to collect
specimens. And often we'll either leave those specimens in country or we'll kind of split
it. So there are duplicates that that come back with us and we leave the originals in the
country that we're working in. So some of it kind of is not quite so bad as all that. The,
the funny thing often with the, what most people come to use our collections for, so this
is the stuff that's behind the scenes that we use for research is people are coming to use
it for taxonomy. So taxonomy is the naming of things. Uh, so, you know, when we're
trying to discover new species, and I can be rude about taxonomists because I'm not
one, I love them

Nemo:

<laugh>,

Dr. Cooper:

But the joke I have with my taxonomist friends is that essentially they turn up a
collection and they take all the specimens out that they want to look at, uh, they line
them up and they just look at them. Uh, so you come into the office and you just see
them with this little parade of species like, Oh, hello, doing some taxonomy today,

Nemo:

Basically don't like spot the difference. It

Dr. Cooper:

Really is, I mean it's cool, it's the kind of differences as well there as an untrained
person, I just can't see those differences, but they're really clear to the taxonomists. But
yeah, so one of the issues there is that when you name a new species, you have to
deposit what's called the type specimen in a museum.

Nemo:

Mm-hmm. <affirmative>.

Dr. Cooper:

And so this is like the perfect example of that species. So then if you want to come back
and name another species, you have to compare it to all the other types. And so in
many ways it's easier if many of those types are in the same place, rather than you
having to travel to a hundred different museums to look at them all

Nemo:

mm-hmm. <affirmative>.

Dr. Cooper:

So in some cases it's almost easier if they're on in one place, uh, at a time. But again, of
course that that's a, a really colonial attitude too. So, you know, maybe we're just back
to burning it all down again. <laugh>.

SEAS_BelowDecks_6 (Completed 10/24/22)
Transcript by Rev.com

Page 3 of 12

This transcript was exported on Oct 24, 2022 - view latest version here.
Nemo:

Yeah, I was going round in circles in my head with that because part of my job was
digitizing. And so the idea of like not having to have people come to one place and they
can access high quality photos or scans or all of these things, but then does that mean
then that if fish or snails or whatever were like repatriated to the places that they were
caught in or belonged to, are there places that can hold onto it? How granular do you
get, I guess is maybe another question that I would have. If there's two or three
museums, do you send it to the closest one? Do you send it to the place of the best
ability to hold those fish?

Dr. Cooper:

Yeah, it, it's, it's really complicated, but I think you're right in the, I think eventually
technology is gonna save us in, in this circumstance. I think some of the problem at the
moment is we're kind of in that in between stage where the technology is not quite
good enough because the digitization that you were doing, for example, was incredible,
but it took a huge amount of time and effort to get, you know, I can't remember how
many species you ended up sort of covering.

Nemo:

Not very many <laugh>.

Dr. Cooper:

Yeah. So the, the museum has, um, over 80 million specimens in its collections, which is
just an insane number. And actually it's probably more than that because nobody's
really actually ever gone and counted 80 million things. It's just a kind of guesstimate. So
I think eventually if we can digitize everything to a standard whereby we have all the
information that we need to be able to designate different species or do other kinds of
research, then yeah. That, that sort of won't be a problem anymore. But then, you
know, you get into these arguments of whether you even need a, a museum, I, I think
you do still, I think it would, it's still cool to have these physical objects and I think part
of that is we don't know what they're gonna be used for in the future. So it's been really
cool chatting to one of my colleagues and and your colleague as well, Nemo, Ollie
Crimmon. So he's been at the museum for 50 years, which is incredible. And he talks
about how things have changed a huge amount in the time he's been there and that the
specimens are being used now for the kinds of studies that he would never have even
considered doing 50 years ago. Mm. And so holding onto those physical objects I think is
a sensible plan, but again, that there's gotta be equity and there's gotta be
consideration of, of the histories of those objects as well.

Nemo:

And I feel like some of the conversations that I had with the people who are doing loads
of DNA testing on specimens who wish that other museum staff handled the specimens
in certain ways and stuff like that, like everyone has different desires for the handling of
museum specimens. <laugh>, like I feel like I remember some people talking about how
they wish that in the 19th century preservation techniques have been different because
it's really hard to get DNA samples from wet specimens I think.

Dr. Cooper:

Yeah. So basically anything preserved in formalin, so the really old stuff we have, you
can get DNA out of, but then anything that is there after the point that they discovered
you could use formalin is useless because formalin degrades dna, it's, it's one of the
main things that it does. It's, it's why we don't use it anymore because it's also
carcinogenic. Woo. But that means that there's this whole sort of time period of

SEAS_BelowDecks_6 (Completed 10/24/22)
Transcript by Rev.com

Page 4 of 12

This transcript was exported on Oct 24, 2022 - view latest version here.
specimens that we can't get any DNA information out of. Whereas new stuff we
preserve them in, in a hundred percent in ethanol. So you can get DNA out of those. But
yeah, it's definitely interesting cuz there's specimens now where we can do surface
scanning or we can take beautiful photographs where somebody in like the early 18
hundreds just sliced it up because they wanted to see what his stomach looked like and
so you then can't use the external thing. So yeah, there's, there's a lot of like cursing
Victorians that goes on in the museum. <laugh>,
Nemo:

I remember a lot of like things stuck to boards and things like rotting in my hands and
just loads of gross oil coming out of places and I'm like, those Victorians

Dr. Cooper:

<laugh>. Yeah, I mean that basically sums up the museum gross oil coming out of things
in weird places. <laugh>.

Nemo:

So you mentioned briefly about still kind of going on expeditions, still going and, and
getting local involvement. Do you think there are better practices that museums can be
doing is institutional racism and stuff like that and, and it's linked to science still having
an effect on how science is being done now?

Dr. Cooper:

So yeah, I, I think despite the, the government liking to tell us that, you know, there is
no institutional racism, <laugh> unfortunately science is institutionally racist either
overtly and you know, we're seeing this frightening resurgence of race science in the last
sort of five, 10 years. Um, so you know, if you've read Angela San's book Superior, which
is incredible. Mm. And so if you haven't read that, I would definitely recommend, uh,
taking a look if you're interested in how that's sort of coming back into the mainstream
and it's sort of a horrible way, but it's also racist in these really sort of small ways. So,
you know, people having research sites where they go out there and they maybe don't
involve local people in the way that they should do. So there's, you know, a lot of issues
with what people refer to as either parachute science or helicopter science.
So this idea of somebody from the global north sort of coming in with their research
team and doing this research project and then just disappearing off and getting all these
amazing scientific papers and discoveries but not really contributing to anything that's
going on in countries. So you get a lot of local people being acknowledged as, you know,
field techs or research assistants, but the projects aren't really being led by people from
the local area. And so this is just, you know, Neuvo colonialism really, which is, uh,
slightly disturbing. So I know there's, there's definitely been quite a few, few efforts
recently to do something about this. Yeah, as I always say, you've have to, you have to
know it's a problem before you can do things. So a lot of uh, scientific journals for
example are asking now for an inclusivity statement. So explaining how everyone is
involved and especially if you're doing work in the global south and you are not from the
global south, there's also been lots of discussions about sort of things which perhaps
seem minor, but one of the ways that a scientist we get judged is by who reads our
papers and then who cites our papers in other papers.
And there's lots of research that suggests that's again, massively biased towards
citations of researchers from the global north and particularly our, our favorite straight

SEAS_BelowDecks_6 (Completed 10/24/22)
Transcript by Rev.com

Page 5 of 12

This transcript was exported on Oct 24, 2022 - view latest version here.
white man norm in the global north seems to be the person who gets all the citations
even now, which is, uh, pretty depressing. Uh, so again, burn it all down <laugh>.
Nemo:

Yeah, I feel like from that it's probably likely that also papers that are written in English
are probably privileged over other Languages.

Dr. Cooper:

Definitely a hundred percent. Um, that's, that's another really tricky problem. So there's
some papers by a researcher who's based in Argentina called Martin Nunez. And so he's
been really angry about this on Twitter, which is, uh, always entertaining <laugh> and
he's been trying to push for people not complaining so much about English language
and publishing in different languages. So a lot of journals will now let you translate your
abstract into another language, but it's still, you know, it's difficult I guess to get a PhD
student in the UK or the US to learn, you know, 20 different languages in order to read
all of the research. So again, hopefully this is a place where technology will save us.
Yeah. And then hopefully people will start reading these papers and these translations
and then we'll have a much better sort of global science undergoing.

Nemo:

Mm.
It's interesting, I remembered that this is a Trice forgotten podcast and was like, oh
yeah, I should probably be making links to Trice Forgotten. But that was a really
interesting link in that thinking about the characters of Trice Forgotten and the fact that
they speak English, all of them speak English. And when I was looking at what characters
I was going to be making for this show, picked places where Britain has had some
colonial power. So there is some feasible like reason why they're speaking in English and
they are speaking in English. And it was something that Morgan and Raf and I talked
about in like, are we going to have these characters be speaking like a different
language? But as a listener we are hearing it in English because it's how we hear it. But
actually like, you know, if if anyone else came across them they'd hear Arabic or Spanish
or any other language and we decided that no, actually they are all speaking English
unless they're not speaking English.
So, you know, there is some Arabic, there is some Bengali and Tamil and hokkian in
there, but the only reason that I'm able to write this show is because I'm writing it in
English <laugh> and not in a different language. And the only reason that anyone is
listening to it is because it's in English and not in a certain other language. And, and the
way that even that is a colonial feature of the show, like they are not "free," I guess
quote unquote in scare quotes, heavily scare quoted <laugh>, they are not free to talk in
native languages or indigenous languages. And then on the upside that does mean that
they can communicate with each other. They have found a language that they can
communicate with each other, which has great. But it's always been a slightly messy
feeling for me as well with, with that. Yeah,

Dr. Cooper:

Yeah, that's, that's really interesting actually cause I'd never thought about that. Cause I
think you kind of, we've gotten used to watching TV programs where people speak
different languages to each other and you just understand via subtitles and how you do
that with the podcast. Yeah, yeah, that's, that's a really interesting point. Yeah,

SEAS_BelowDecks_6 (Completed 10/24/22)
Transcript by Rev.com

Page 6 of 12

This transcript was exported on Oct 24, 2022 - view latest version here.
Nemo:

It's, it's even come into the, like the script and the transcripts. I believe the decision was
for transcripts, if there is another language outside of English, it's actually translated in
the transcripts for you. Whereas that's not something that is translated on the podcast.
So when Nani is singing, obviously we don't hear that in the English translation. We just
have to go and look up what those lyrics are. But if you are reading the transcript then
you get translations.

Dr. Cooper:

Yeah, I, I think so Miranda Low, I, I saw her give a talk recently about all this
decolonization stuff and then she was saying, you know this, the problem with a lot of
this is there aren't any easy answers to any of it. Yes. It's all just super complicated. But
if there are any easy answers I guess, uh, you know, phone in and let us know <laugh>
cause that would be awesome.

Nemo:

Yeah, literally one person's just like, Oh, it's easy, you just go A, B and C and then it's
fine.

Dr. Cooper:

Which would be great

Nemo:

<laugh>. So other than things like repatriation, other, other things that can really
considered under the bracket of like decolonization. Yeah.

Dr. Cooper:

So I think, again, this is written about really beautifully in Miranda Lowe and Saadia Das
paper, which again you mentioned with John, their idea is that really a lot of this is
about investigating the specimens that we have, finding out more about their histories
and sharing that with people. So making sure that we have this context. So I think again,
in one of your earlier one of these shows, I've been learning huge amounts from these
below deck episodes. By the way, somebody was talking about how a lot of these
narratives, it's not that they weren't known about, they deliberately got wiped out
because people wanted to be important and they wanted it to be this kind of narrative
of these incredible explorers. So yeah, this, this idea of all these stories that we've kind
of hidden and actually having that information on the museum labels and in our
catalogs and on our websites.
And I think that's probably part of it that we're doing a little bit better on kind of telling
those stories. So maybe that's one thing. And another thing that Miranda talks about a
lot is that we need to decolonize the kinds of people that work in museums. Meaning
that if you look at the workforce, it's still predominantly white, middle class straight
people. So how do you make sure that you are creating not only an equal environment,
but an environment that people feel that they can bring their whole selves to. And
again, I think sometimes the museum does a good job at that and sometimes it does a
terrible job of that. I think as an institution it might not always do a great job. The
people I work with face to face tend to get on really well with. And we have these kinds
of conversations, which is great. This idea of just trying to diversify the workforce, that
it's, it's ridiculous that, you know, Miranda, who's one of the very few black curators, is
doing so much of this work on top of her normal work. Mm.

SEAS_BelowDecks_6 (Completed 10/24/22)
Transcript by Rev.com

Page 7 of 12

This transcript was exported on Oct 24, 2022 - view latest version here.
Nemo:

I mean, to be quite open, there is a reason why I asked John and you Natalie, both white
people because I feel like it, it's all of our responsibilities. And I've said this over and
over again at this podcast, even though I would class myself as a person of color, I still
have two very imperial backgrounds, Japan and the uk. And so I always feel like I also
have to specify, I also have to do a lot of decolonization. And so a lot of this research
that I've been doing has been because of interrogating my own background,
interrogating my own upbringing, the people that I've always been surrounded by. I
mean, that's what decolonization is, right? It's like having a colonial mindset because of
the way that you're educated. I've always been educated in the UK and to Decolonize
that is to go and like self-educate yourself and do Research.

Dr. Cooper:

Yeah, no, I'm glad you brought that up actually about John and I both being white,
cisgendered straight people in that it it is, it's really tricky cuz I wanted to come on here
and to be, you know, part of the conversation, but at the same time really anxious about
not centering my experience in that. So definitely had this conversation with a few other
people at work about whether it was appropriate for me to come and talk about this.
But I think, like you say, if white people don't get involved in the conversation, then we
are just perpetuating the problem.

Nemo:

Yeah. I've always been very frustrated with change, not coming fast enough, <laugh>, I
I've always been a person who has been okay to do consultancy and to talk of other
people and to genuinely be quite open about myself in order to educate other people.
And you know, that's also why I write this podcast. I do want people to learn from it, but
when it's only people of color talking about decolonization, then that's not
decolonization because it's not really the people of color who have to learn about it. It is
white people and it's white people who have to, and not just white people, again,
Japanese people, other imperial forces, Europe, blah blah blah. Everyone needs to
decolonize themselves. And that has to be something that you kind of just have to get
the energy to do even though everything is awful all the time, <laugh> and there's
always so much to learn that hopefully being filtered through <laugh> podcast medium
is, is a slightly more accessible way of doing

Dr. Cooper:

That. Yeah, I mean I think one thing that's somewhat a po I'm gonna take it as a positive
take in that actually if we think about decolonization, it really beautifully wraps up with
all of the other things that we want to do in the museum. So like you and I have had
conversations about this idea of queering the museum and, and what is a museum in
the 21st century and how do we make sure there's space for LGBTQ plus communities
as well as, as people from ethnic minority communities, but also how do we do that in a
sustainable way, in a green way, in a way where we've got this climate crisis and this
biodiversity crisis. And I think you can either be completely overwhelmed by the fact
that there's all these problems that we're trying to deal with all at the same time and,
uh, half of of Europe's government seems to be fascist at the moment. Woo. Woohoo.
Or you can take it as like a really positive opportunity and meet lots of really amazing
young people through work like young activists and you know, they're bringing together
all of this knowledge and all of this good practice to try and tackle all these things at the
same time. And so yeah, whilst we're burning it down, maybe we're building it back up,
uh, into something different, something better. Yeah,

SEAS_BelowDecks_6 (Completed 10/24/22)
Transcript by Rev.com

Page 8 of 12

This transcript was exported on Oct 24, 2022 - view latest version here.
Nemo:

It really reminds me, I mean that was such a positive point and then I'm immediately
gonna do it down, but hopefully we can come back up again. <laugh>, that's just what
this is. It's just that highs and lows burn it down, bring it back up again. Um, so in the
burning it down, it was really reminding me of the recent death of the Queen and the
fact that like during all of those conversations that were happening, like just after she
died and into her funeral when people were saying I think quite rightly that we should
be on picking how like her imperialism really affects everyone in the UK and abroad
versus people who are saying things like, she's like my grandmother who's just died.
Now's not the time. So when is the time to talk about decolonization? If not now it, it is
kind of interesting because in Trice forgotten, it's not the Natural History Museum of
London that William works for. He works for the Queens Museum of London <laugh>,

Dr. Cooper:

Which is very different. It's

Nemo:

Super different and it's not the same museum Bizarre everywhere. <laugh>

Dr. Cooper:

Well yeah, I mean the, the patron, our official patron is, uh, Catherine Princess of Wales.
Is that the right title? Check me out with My Royal Knowledge <laugh>. Um, so I mean
we have some kind of remit there. I think it's, it's a little confusing to me. I'm not really
sure what a patron does other than occasionally turns up and shakes people's hands.

Nemo:

Sure, sure, sure.

Dr. Cooper:

I would prefer it was David Attenborough, but you know, <laugh>, what can you do?

Nemo:

The only true royalty

Dr. Cooper:

<laugh>. Yeah, I mean it's, it, it is really horrifying when you look back on, you know, the
museum and, and the history of it and, and how it all started and how really incredibly
built upon enslaved people it is. Like that's where the money came from. That's where
the specimens came from. I mean, Han Sloan, who the collection is, is originally based
on his stuff. You know, he literally sent enslaved people out into his plantations to
collect things. So, you know, we, we have this sort of pretty horrifying legacy and it does
seem like we do need to talk about it more because every time you talk about it, people
go, Oh really? I didn't know that when actually if you looked it up on the internet,
there's tons of stories on the Nhm website and things like that. Like this is not hidden
anymore. It just seems to be something people don't wanna think about. They wanna
think about dinosaurs and dippy versus the whale. You know, that's the big
controversies of our time. Yeah. Rather than some of those pretty horrific stories as to
where we got those specimens from. Mm.

Nemo:

Yeah. It seems like every time I write anything about like, you know, and I have fairly
surface level as surface level as in I've only really known about these things for the last
four years-ish. And every time I write about something I'm like, surely somebody's got to
have written something about this before because like, there's so much, and it's so like, I
mean you don't have to look very hard to find, uh, at least the things that, you know,
we, we've talked about so far and, but no <laugh> and every time I'm surprised that

SEAS_BelowDecks_6 (Completed 10/24/22)
Transcript by Rev.com

Page 9 of 12

This transcript was exported on Oct 24, 2022 - view latest version here.
institutional racism does exist and, and, and that people are scared of tainting
something that is like you say this childhood memory of like going to the museum, but
for some people it can't be a nice happy childhood memory. And so that is also an
inequality.
Dr. Cooper:

Yeah, I mean the one good thing about our, well there are many good things about our
museum. One of the good things about our museum is it's free <affirmative> so you
don't have to pay to go in. Yeah. If you live somewhere in London, if you can get there,
you can go in for free. But I think there's still a demographic of people that go to the
museum more regularly than others in that is that kind of middle class sort of
contingent. And so, you know, we're not really reaching lower income families perhaps.
And unless we're able to do that and we're able to, you know, give them a reason that
they want to come to the museum, then yeah, we're failing at that kind of, you know,
this mission to engage and inspire people about the natural world and to create
advocates for the planet. I think we're doing a reasonable job with the people we get in
the door, but there's so many people that just never come in the first place. And I think
that's, that's the trick is how do we make those people feel like they're welcome and
they wanna be in that space.

Nemo:

Mm-hmm. <affirmative> and, and not just in the space, but like building the space
behind the scenes. We talked about how like a lot of people don't know that behind the
scenes in the museums there are curators and researchers and I, when before I worked
there didn't know that, didn't know that that was a job that could be done until I
watched it happen to watch a YouTube channel about it from someone in America. And
you know, like you don't see, I mean if you think about natural history and, and natural
programs, you do think of David Attenborough, you think of scientists who go on TV and
they do skew white ci male, now female. I feel like there's a slight gender balance now
in, in who you see on tv, but it still does skew middle class and white. And so if you don't
see yourself talking about natural history, then obviously you don't know how to get
into those industries and then you don't know how to Yeah. How to change things and
how to, how to be there as a human being, not just as someone who is a decolonial tool.
<laugh>. Uh,

Dr. Cooper:

So, so one thing that is new at the museum, which is this incredible, um, program called
the Natural History Museum Explorers Club. Mm. Which is designed to help black
minority, um, ethnic group students and um, mostly aimed at younger people get
careers in natural history and natural sciences. So if anyone listening to this podcast is
interested or knows of anyone who's interested, they should definitely check that out
on our website and sign up because they do lots of really cool events, get to meet
awesome people like Miranda Low and, and find out about her career as a curator at the
museum. Also, Patrick is involved Patrick Campbell, who's, uh, my officemate who's
again been at the museum forever and works on reptiles and is super cool. And so you
get to meet, uh, the slightly more diverse end of our staff, which is great to, to kind of
hopefully inspire people to want to do these jobs in the future. And like you say, Nemo
just like to know that these jobs even exist. Cause I don't think I knew any of this existed
until I was doing a PhD. I didn't, I didn't really know what a PhD was until I was doing a
PhD, which was a interesting experience. <laugh>.

SEAS_BelowDecks_6 (Completed 10/24/22)
Transcript by Rev.com

Page 10 of 12

This transcript was exported on Oct 24, 2022 - view latest version here.
Nemo:

Yep. Mood. Same, same, same. <laugh> <laugh>. I hope that more people have this
curiosity about museums and at the same time as deeply, deeply desiring to burn them
down and repatriating things do also come out of this episode and, and do more
research I guess like for themselves about museums and all of these conversations.
Obviously they do track to other institutions as well, universities and banks and literally
everything needs to also be thinking about these kind of conversations. So hopefully if
you are in any kind of institution, you will also be having these conversations and and
knowing that now is the time to be having them because we need to continually be
having them and we're not gonna reach an end point where we're like, well we've
decolonized. So <laugh>, great job everyone <laugh> the end. Um, yeah.

Dr. Cooper:

Yeah. I mean, again, on a more positive points, I feel like I've been very negative
<laugh>. I love the museum. It is my favorite place in the whole world. And somebody
once told me what I think is a, a really good way of thinking about people who work at
the museum is that we all love it and we all want to save it. We just have different ideas
about how we should save it <laugh>. So that's why, I mean these are my opinions, not
necessarily the opinions of my colleagues and definitely not the opinions of the museum
as a whole. But it is an amazing place. If you haven't been, I urge you to come and have
a look around and check out some of the, the exhibitions and try and see some of the
behind the scenes stuff if you can. It is a really, really cool place with issues, um, like
every other place like you said. So it's, it's not just the museum, this is my attempt to be
sort of pull it back from just museum bashing <laugh>.

Nemo:

Mm. And I'm sure if you don't live in London UK <laugh>, your nearest museum listener
will also be doing very similar things or different things and, and I, I've learned about
loads of different museums across the world, lot of nautical museums that are doing
loads about whaling, histories of whaling and stuff like that, which is something that is
briefly touched upon and tries, forgotten loads of things about Aboriginal people, First
Nations, people from First Nations and Aboriginal people. And I do intrigue you to go
and look at what programs people are running at museums cuz usually they do have
workshops and free events and stuff like that run by own voice people as well as
museum stuff and experts.

Dr. Cooper:

Yeah. And I think a lot of places as well have things on YouTube now. So certainly, yeah,
we've done a bunch of recent behind the scenes tours on YouTube. So if you wanna see
stuff, you know, just look up museums you're interested in and see if they have a
YouTube channel and you can see stuff that way you don't have to physically go to a
museum. Yeah,

Nemo:

My, that's how I got my interest started through museum YouTubes. So I feel like that's
a slightly hopeful, not quite as Bernie it down ending, uh, in parallel I can contain
multitudes and the multitudes are burn it down while also going on YouTube and
looking at museums. So thank you so much Natalie for joining us. It's been a delight to
talk to you as ever and also to learn more. I love learning all the time.

Dr. Cooper:

<laugh>. Cool. Yeah, thanks for having me. It's great to be on the show and I'm really
excited to hear the rest of the episodes

SEAS_BelowDecks_6 (Completed 10/24/22)
Transcript by Rev.com

Page 11 of 12

This transcript was exported on Oct 24, 2022 - view latest version here.
Nemo:

<laugh>, as of I, So that's it from me, Nemo, and goodbye from Natalie. Bye. We'll see
you next time below decks.

[Show Theme - Outro]
Trice Forgotten is a podcast distributed by Rusty Quill, and licensed under a Creative Commons
Attribution Non-Commercial Sharealike 4.0 International License. The series is created be Nemo Martin
and directed by Rafaella Marcus.
Today’s episode featured:
Nemo Martin
Natalie Cooper
And was edited by Lowri Ann Davies, and Catherine Rinella
Trice Forgotten is produced by Ian Geers, Lowri Ann Davies and production manager Natasha Johnston
with executive producers Alexander J Newall and April Sumner
To subscribe, view associated materials or join our Patreon visit rustyquill.com. Rate and review us
online, tweet us @therustyquill, visit us on Facebook or email us at mail@rustyquill.com. Thanks for
listening.

SEAS_BelowDecks_6 (Completed 10/24/22)
Transcript by Rev.com

Page 12 of 12